Artifacts TTL draft (#396)
wandb/docs: docs/guides/artifacts/ttl.md

---
description: TTL
displayed_sidebar: default
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Manage data retention with TTL
Use a time-to-live (TTL) policy to automatically remove an artifact version from W&B.

:::note
W&B does not support setting TTL policies for artifacts that are linked to the W&B Model Registry.
:::

## Create a TTL policy
Set a TTL policy for an artifact either when you create the artifact or retroactively after the artifact is created.

For all the code snippets below, replace the content wrapped in `<>` with your information to use the code snippet. 

### Set a TTL policy when you create an artifact

> Use the W&B Python SDK to define a TTL policy when you create an artifact version. TTL policies are defined in days.    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the W&B Python SDK to define a TTL policy when you create an artifact version. TTL policies are typically defined in days.    
```

:::tip

> Defining a TTL policy when you create an artifact version is similar to how you normally [create an artifact](./construct-an-artifact.md). With the exception that you pass in a time delta to the artifact's `ttl_duration` attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Defining a TTL policy when you create an artifact version is similar to how you normally [create an artifact](./construct-an-artifact.md). With the exception that you pass in a time delta to the artifact's `ttl` attribute.
```

:::

The steps are as follows: 

1. [Create an artifact](./construct-an-artifact.md).
2. [Add content to the artifact](./construct-an-artifact.md#add-files-to-an-artifact) such as files, a directory, or a reference.

> 3. Define a TTL time limit with the [`datetime`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html) data type part of Python's standard library. Pass this time delta to the artifact's `ttl_duration` attribute. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Define a TTL time limit using the [`datetime.timedelta`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html) data type part of Python's standard library.
```

4. [Log the artifact](./construct-an-artifact.md#3-save-your-artifact-to-the-wb-server).

The following code snippet demonstrates how to create an artifact and set a TTL policy. 

```python
import wandb
from datetime import timedelta

run = wandb.init(project="<my-project-name>", entity='<your-entity>')
art = wandb.Artifact(name="<artifact-name>", type="<type>")
art.add_file("my_file")

> art.ttl_duration = timedelta(days=30) # Set TTL policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
art.ttl = timedelta(days=30) # Set TTL policy
```

run.log_artifact(art)
```

### Set or edit a TTL policy after you create an artifact
Use the W&B Python SDK to define a TTL policy for an artifact that already exists.

1. [Download your artifact](./download-and-use-an-artifact.md).
2. Pass in a time delta to the artifact's `ttl_duration` attribute. 
3. Update the artifact with the [`save`](../../ref/python/run.md#save) method.

The following code snippet shows how to retrieve, view and set a new TTL policy:
```python
import wandb
from datetime import timedelta

art = run.use_artifact(artifact_or_name="<entity/project/your-artifact-name:alias>", type="<type>")

> art.ttl_duration = timedelta(days=365*7) # pass in a new TTL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
art.ttl = timedelta(days=365*7) # pass in a new TTL
```

art.save()
```

> 

Reviewer: Insert another chunk of code there something like

```suggestion
## Inherit TTL policy
This is an artifact version TTL's default state. This means the artifact version TTL will inherit its artifact collection's TTL(upcoming feature) if it exists and the version has no TTL of its own.

1. [Download your artifact](./download-and-use-an-artifact.md).
2. Set the artifact's `ttl` attribute to the Wandb variable `wandb.ArtifactTTL.INHERIT`.
3. Update the artifact with the [`save`](../../ref/python/run.md#save) method.

```python
art = run.use_artifact(artifact_or_name="<entity/project/your-artifact-name:alias>", type="<type>")
art.ttl_duration = wandb.ArtifactTTL.INHERIT
art.save()
```
```

## Deactivate a TTL policy

> Use the W&B Python SDK to deactivate a TTL policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the W&B Python SDK to disable a TTL policy. 
Note: Artifact versions with a disabled TTL will not inherit an Artifact collection's TTL. Refer to (## Inherit TTL Policy) on how to delete version TTL and inherit from the collection level TTL
```

1. [Download your artifact](./download-and-use-an-artifact.md).

> 2. Set the artifact's `ttl_duration` attribute to `None`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Set the artifact's `ttl` attribute to `None`.
```

3. Update the artifact with the [`save`](../../ref/python/run.md#save) method.

> The following code snippet shows how to deactivate a TTL policy for an artifact:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code snippet shows how to disable a TTL policy for an artifact:
```

```python
art = run.use_artifact(artifact_or_name="<entity/project/your-artifact-name:alias>", type="<type>")

> art.ttl_duration = None

Reviewer: ```suggestion
art.ttl = None
```

art.save()
```

## View TTL policies
View TTL policies for artifacts with the Python SDK or with the W&B App UI.

<Tabs
  defaultValue="python"
  values={[
    {label: 'Python SDK', value: 'python'},
    {label: 'W&B App', value: 'app'},
  ]}>
  <TabItem value="python">

Use a print statement to view a TTL policy for an artifact. The following example shows how to retrieve an artifact and view its TTL policy:

```python
art = run.use_artifact(artifact_or_name="<entity/project/your-artifact-name:alias>", type="<type>")
print(art.ttl_duration)
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="app">

View a TTL policy for an artifact with the W&B App UI.

1. Navigate to the W&B App at [https://wandb.ai/home](https://wandb.ai/home).
2. Go to your W&B Project.
3. Within your project, select the Artifacts tab in the left sidebar.
4. Click on a collection.

Within the collection view you can see all of the versions for the selected artifact. Within the `Time to Live` column you will see the TTL policy assigned to that artifact version. 

> [INSERT IMAGE]

Author: @noaleetz or @estellazx Is there a live project somewhere I can take a quick screen shot?

---
description: TTL
displayed_sidebar: default
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> # Manage data retention with TTL

Reviewer 2: Manage data retention with Artifacts TTL, or Manage data retention by setting a TTL policy on your Artifacts

> Use a time-to-live (TTL) policy to automatically remove an artifact version from W&B.

Reviewer 2: Use an Artifacts time-to-live (TTL) policy to schedule the deletion of an artifact version from W&B.

:::note

> W&B does not support setting TTL policies for artifacts that are linked to the W&B Model Registry.

Reviewer 2: Reframe this as:

Any model artifacts that are linked to the Model Registry will automatically have their TTL de-activated to ensure that models promoted to the registry are not deleted. 

To learn more about promoting model versions to a centralized staging area for a team, visit [Model Registry](https://docs.wandb.ai/guides/models).

:::

## Create a TTL policy

> Set a TTL policy for an artifact either when you create the artifact or retroactively after the artifact is created.

Reviewer 2: @estellazx - do you think we should specify logged instead of created?

Reviewer: that wording is fine imo

For all the code snippets below, replace the content wrapped in `<>` with your information to use the code snippet. 

### Set a TTL policy when you create an artifact
Use the W&B Python SDK to define a TTL policy when you create an artifact version. TTL policies are typically defined in days.    

:::tip
Defining a TTL policy when you create an artifact version is similar to how you normally [create an artifact](./construct-an-artifact.md). With the exception that you pass in a time delta to the artifact's `ttl` attribute.
:::

The steps are as follows: 

1. [Create an artifact](./construct-an-artifact.md).
2. [Add content to the artifact](./construct-an-artifact.md#add-files-to-an-artifact) such as files, a directory, or a reference.

> 3. Define a TTL time limit using the [`datetime.timedelta`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html) data type part of Python's standard library.

Reviewer 2: Revise: 

Define a TTL duration for the artifact version using the [`datetime.timedelta`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html) data type part of Python's standard library. The version will be deleted after the duration expires.

4. [Log the artifact](./construct-an-artifact.md#3-save-your-artifact-to-the-wb-server).

The following code snippet demonstrates how to create an artifact and set a TTL policy. 

```python
import wandb
from datetime import timedelta

run = wandb.init(project="<my-project-name>", entity='<your-entity>')
art = wandb.Artifact(name="<artifact-name>", type="<type>")
art.add_file("my_file")

art.ttl = timedelta(days=30) # Set TTL policy
run.log_artifact(art)
```

### Set or edit a TTL policy after you create an artifact
Use the W&B Python SDK to define a TTL policy for an artifact that already exists.

> 1. [Download your artifact](./download-and-use-an-artifact.md).

Reviewer 2: @estellazx do we need to be calling download to set the ttl? Or can we just fetch it using run.use_artifact?

Reviewer: don't need to download

Reviewer 3: +1, "download" means downloading the artifact files which is not needed. Maybe let's use a different word like "fetch" or "get"?

> 2. Pass in a time delta to the artifact's `ttl_duration` attribute. 

Reviewer 2: shouldn't the attribute just be "ttl" - i.e artifact.ttl?

Reviewer 2: Let's make sure we continue to clarify artifact version wherever possible:

Pass in a time delta to the artifact version's ttl attribute

3. Update the artifact with the [`save`](../../ref/python/run.md#save) method.

The following code snippet shows how to retrieve, view and set a new TTL policy:
```python
import wandb
from datetime import timedelta

art = run.use_artifact(artifact_or_name="<entity/project/your-artifact-name:alias>", type="<type>")

> art.ttl = timedelta(days=365*7) # pass in a new TTL

Reviewer 2: in the code comment, maybe emphasize "this artifact version will expire in 7 years"

Reviewer 2: lets name the artifact art_version to specify that you are setting it at the version level

art.save()
```

> ## Inherit TTL policy

Reviewer 2: @estellazx is this functionality that currently exists? Can users set a collection policy and choose to inherit from it?

Reviewer 2: @ngrayluna we should remove this section for now until we add collection level capabilities (can we comment it out for now?)

Reviewer: lets move this section to the bottom then and mark it as future feature or of the similar nature? I'm also ok with removing it for now

Let an artifact version, that does not have a TTL policy, inherit the TTL policy of the artifact collection it belongs to. An artifact version can only inherit a TTL policy from the artifact collection it belongs to if the artifact collection possesses a TTL policy.  Otherwise, no TTL policy is inherited.

:::note
An artifact version will not inherit a TTL policy from its artifact collection if a TTL policy already exists for that artifact version.
:::

1. [Download your artifact](./download-and-use-an-artifact.md).
2. Set the artifact's `ttl` attribute to the W&B environment variable `wandb.ArtifactTTL.INHERIT`.
3. Update the artifact with the [`save`](../../ref/python/run.md#save) method.

```python
art = run.use_artifact(artifact_or_name="<entity/project/your-artifact-name:alias>", type="<type>")
art.ttl_duration = wandb.ArtifactTTL.INHERIT
art.save()
```

## Deactivate a TTL policy

> Use the W&B Python SDK to disable a TTL policy. 

Reviewer 2: We should be consistent in terminology re deactivate vs disable. This functionality refers to setting TTL to none (i.e. removing the countdown) so we should stick to term deactivate (disable makes it seem like you are turning off the ability to add or edit any TTLs). Does that make sense?

Note: Artifact versions with a disabled TTL will not inherit an Artifact collection's TTL. Refer to (## Inherit TTL Policy) on how to delete version TTL and inherit from the collection level TTL

> 1. [Download your artifact](./download-and-use-an-artifact.md).

Reviewer 2: Is the action run.Use-artifact in this snippet more for fetching? I don't think it is for the purpose of downloading the artifact version but @estellazx correct me otherwise.

Reviewer: yeah I agree @ngrayluna we should change the language from download your artifact to fetch/use existing artifact

2. Set the artifact's `ttl` attribute to `None`.
3. Update the artifact with the [`save`](../../ref/python/run.md#save) method.

The following code snippet shows how to disable a TTL policy for an artifact:
```python
art = run.use_artifact(artifact_or_name="<entity/project/your-artifact-name:alias>", type="<type>")
art.ttl = None
art.save()
```

## View TTL policies
View TTL policies for artifacts with the Python SDK or with the W&B App UI.

<Tabs
  defaultValue="python"
  values={[
    {label: 'Python SDK', value: 'python'},
    {label: 'W&B App', value: 'app'},
  ]}>
  <TabItem value="python">

> Use a print statement to view a TTL policy for an artifact. The following example shows how to retrieve an artifact and view its TTL policy:

Reviewer 2: for now lets continue to specify artifact version (i.e view TTL policy for artifact version)

---
description: TTL
displayed_sidebar: default
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Manage data retention with Artifact TTL policy

> Schedule when artifact version are deleted from W&B with W&B Artifact time-to-live (TTL) policy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Schedule when artifacts are deleted from W&B with W&B Artifact time-to-live (TTL) policy.
```

:::note
W&B deactivates the option to set a TTL policy for model artifacts linked to the Model Registry. This is to help ensure that models are not deleted by mistake.
:::

## Create a TTL policy
Set a TTL policy for an artifact either when you create the artifact or retroactively after the artifact is created.

For all the code snippets below, replace the content wrapped in `<>` with your information to use the code snippet. 

### Set a TTL policy when you create an artifact

> Use the W&B Python SDK to define a TTL policy when you create an artifact version. TTL policies are typically defined in days.    

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use the W&B Python SDK to define a TTL policy when you create an artifact. TTL policies are typically defined in days.    
```

:::tip

> Defining a TTL policy when you create an artifact version is similar to how you normally [create an artifact](./construct-an-artifact.md). With the exception that you pass in a time delta to the artifact's `ttl` attribute.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Defining a TTL policy when you create an artifact is similar to how you normally [create an artifact](./construct-an-artifact.md). With the exception that you pass in a time delta to the artifact's `ttl` attribute.
```

:::

The steps are as follows: 

1. [Create an artifact](./construct-an-artifact.md).
2. [Add content to the artifact](./construct-an-artifact.md#add-files-to-an-artifact) such as files, a directory, or a reference.
3. Define a TTL time limit with the [`datetime.timedelta`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html) data type that is part of Python's standard library.
4. [Log the artifact](./construct-an-artifact.md#3-save-your-artifact-to-the-wb-server).

The following code snippet demonstrates how to create an artifact and set a TTL policy. 

```python
import wandb
from datetime import timedelta

run = wandb.init(project="<my-project-name>", entity='<your-entity>')
artifact_version = wandb.Artifact(name="<artifact-name>", type="<type>")
artifact_version.add_file("my_file")

artifact_version.ttl = timedelta(days=30) # Set TTL policy

> run.log_artifact(artifact_version)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
run = wandb.init(project="<my-project-name>", entity="<my-entity>")
artifact = wandb.Artifact(name="<artifact-name>", type="<type>")
artifact.add_file("<my_file>")

artifact.ttl = timedelta(days=30)  # Set TTL policy
run.log_artifact(artifact)
```

```

> The code snippet above sets the TTL policy for the artifact version to 30 days. In other words, the artifact version is deleted by W&B in 30 days.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The code snippet above sets the TTL policy for the artifact to 30 days. In other words, the artifact is deleted by W&B shortly after 30 days.
```

### Set or edit a TTL policy after you create an artifact
Use the W&B Python SDK to define a TTL policy for an artifact that already exists.

1. [Download your artifact](./download-and-use-an-artifact.md).
2. Pass in a time delta to the artifact's `ttl_duration` attribute. 
3. Update the artifact with the [`save`](../../ref/python/run.md#save) method.

The following code snippet shows how to set a TTL policy for an artifact:
```python
import wandb
from datetime import timedelta

artifact_version = run.use_artifact(artifact_or_name="<entity/project/your-artifact-name:alias>", type="<type>")
artifact_version.ttl = timedelta(days=365*2)  # Delete in two years

> artifact_version.save()

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
artifact = run.use_artifact("<my-entity/my-project/my-artifact:alias>")
artifact.ttl = timedelta(days=365 * 2)  # Delete in two years
artifact.save()
```

```

In the above example, the TTL policy is set to two years.

## Inherit TTL policy

> Let an artifact version, that does not have a TTL policy, inherit the TTL policy of the artifact collection it belongs to. An artifact version can only inherit a TTL policy from the artifact collection it belongs to if the artifact collection possesses a TTL policy.  Otherwise, no TTL policy is inherited.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Let an artifact, that does not have a TTL policy, inherit the TTL policy of the artifact collection it belongs to. An artifact can only inherit a TTL policy from the artifact collection it belongs to if the artifact collection possesses a TTL policy.  Otherwise, no TTL policy is inherited.
```

:::note

> An artifact version will not inherit a TTL policy from its artifact collection if a TTL policy already exists for that artifact version.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An artifact will not inherit a TTL policy from its artifact collection if a TTL policy already exists for that artifact.
```

:::

> 1. [Download your artifact](./download-and-use-an-artifact.md).

Reviewer 3: Same as above, let's say "fetch" or "get".

> 2. Set the artifact's `ttl` attribute to the W&B environment variable `wandb.ArtifactTTL.INHERIT`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Set the artifact's `ttl` attribute to the constant `wandb.ArtifactTTL.INHERIT`.
```

3. Update the artifact with the [`save`](../../ref/python/run.md#save) method.

```python
artifact_version = run.use_artifact(artifact_or_name="<entity/project/your-artifact-name:alias>", type="<type>")
artifact_version.ttl_duration = wandb.ArtifactTTL.INHERIT

> artifact_version.save()

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
artifact = run.use_artifact("<my-entity/my-project/my-artifact:alias>")
artifact.ttl = wandb.ArtifactTTL.INHERIT
artifact.save()
```

```

## Deactivate a TTL policy
Use the W&B Python SDK to deactivate a TTL policy. 

> Note: Artifact versions with a disabled TTL will not inherit an Artifact collection's TTL. Refer to (## Inherit TTL Policy) on how to delete version TTL and inherit from the collection level TTL

Reviewer: Refer to (## Inherit TTL Policy) on how to delete version TTL
^ the (## Inherit TTL Policy) should be an actual link to the inherit ttl policy section if we choose to keep that section

> Note: Artifact versions with a disabled TTL will not inherit an Artifact collection's TTL. Refer to (## Inherit TTL Policy) on how to delete version TTL and inherit from the collection level TTL

Reviewer 3: Let's use the same style for notes as above:
```suggestion
:::note
Artifact versions with a disabled TTL will not inherit an Artifact collection's TTL. Refer to (## Inherit TTL Policy) on how to delete version TTL and inherit from the collection level TTL
:::
```

> Note: Artifact versions with a disabled TTL will not inherit an Artifact collection's TTL. Refer to (## Inherit TTL Policy) on how to delete version TTL and inherit from the collection level TTL

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note: Artifacts with a disabled TTL will not inherit an artifact collection's TTL. Refer to (## Inherit TTL Policy) on how to delete artifact TTL and inherit from the collection level TTL.
```

1. [Download your artifact](./download-and-use-an-artifact.md).
2. Set the artifact's `ttl` attribute to `None`.
3. Update the artifact with the [`save`](../../ref/python/run.md#save) method.

The following code snippet shows how to disable a TTL policy for an artifact:
```python
artifact_version = run.use_artifact(artifact_or_name="<entity/project/your-artifact-name:alias>", type="<type>")
artifact_version.ttl = None

> artifact_version.save()

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
artifact = run.use_artifact("<my-entity/my-project/my-artifact:alias>")
artifact.ttl = None
artifact.save()
```

```

## View TTL policies
View TTL policies for artifacts with the Python SDK or with the W&B App UI.

<Tabs
  defaultValue="python"
  values={[
    {label: 'Python SDK', value: 'python'},
    {label: 'W&B App', value: 'app'},
  ]}>
  <TabItem value="python">

Use a print statement to view an artifact's TTL policy. The following example shows how to retrieve an artifact and view its TTL policy:

```python
artifact_version = run.use_artifact(artifact_or_name="<entity/project/your-artifact-name:alias>", type="<type>")

> print(art.ttl_duration)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
artifact = run.use_artifact("<my-entity/my-project/my-artifact:alias>")
print(artifact.ttl)
```

```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="app">

View a TTL policy for an artifact with the W&B App UI.

> 1. Navigate to the W&B App at [https://wandb.ai/home](https://wandb.ai/home).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the W&B App at [https://wandb.ai](https://wandb.ai).
```

2. Go to your W&B Project.
3. Within your project, select the Artifacts tab in the left sidebar.
4. Click on a collection.

> Within the collection view you can see all of the versions for the selected artifact. Within the `Time to Live` column you will see the TTL policy assigned to that artifact version. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Within the collection view you can see all of the artifacts in the selected collection. Within the `Time to Live` column you will see the TTL policy assigned to that artifact. 
```
